[1]: https://madcourses.com

# Mad Courses

[MAD Courses][1] is a social enterprise, founded to educate people around the
world about systems thinking, indigenous wisdom and environmental stewardship.
They work with tribes in the Philippines to create 'interactive video
adventures,' their own brand of gamified educational videos.

MAD needed a variety of design work to help tie together their product,
including a marketing website and a brand guide.

## Brand guide

MAD's main product is their video course, but they also sell physical curriculum guides and give presentations to organizations around the world. They needed a flexible brand that would work for the website, print products, presentations and some of MAD’s more unique digital tools.

> A few selected pages from the final style guide.

![Images from the brand guide](../images/mad-courses-style-guide-2.jpg)
![Images from the brand guide](../images/mad-courses-style-guide-4.jpg)
![Images from the brand guide](../images/mad-courses-style-guide-5.jpg)
![Images from the brand guide](../images/mad-courses-style-guide-7.jpg)

As a small startup, MAD’s team is constantly changing, with new contractors coming in and team members shifting roles fluidly. I started by discussing how I could create design elements that were easily reused by the whole team.

I split the task into two styles of illustration that together would cover most
of the graphics MAD needed. The first was to emulate 'ink,' like you might see
on a home-made travel scrapbook or from a passport stamp. The MAD brand font
lends itself nicely to this style.

> Illustrations in this inky, screen print style

![General assets in the inky screenprint style](../images/mad-courses-ink-assets.jpg)

![Examples of some illustrations in this style](../images/mad-courses-ink-assets-close-up.jpg)

The second was also 'skeumorphic,' a term that broadly means 2D design that
emulates real 3D objects. These illustrations mimic actual maps, boarding
passes, stamps and notebook pages, using a very attractive 3D grainy gradient
effect.

> Illustrations in the grainy style

![General assets in the skeumorphic grainy style](../images/mad-courses-grain-assets.jpg)

When combined, these two styles create a very distinctive, adaptable, beautiful
design language.

> A 'logic model' I designed for MAD, which describes their business model
> visually

![MAD courses logic model](../images/mad-courses-logic-model.jpg)

> Digital worksheets for 'systems thinkings frameworks,' pedagogical tools for
> solving complex problems

![A worksheet for MAD's system thinkings courses](../images/mad-courses-jamboard.jpg)

> A digital 'notebook' for recording thoughts during one of MAD's courses

![A worksheet for MAD's system thinkings courses](../images/mad-courses-slideshow.jpg)

## Website

For MAD's website, I wanted to combine the two styles discussed above. This was
both a design and a technical challenge, since I had used computational effects
that a browser would struggle to replicate.

> Images from the (draft) MAD website

![Images from the brand guide](../images/mad-courses-website-1.jpg)

![Images from the brand guide](../images/mad-courses-website-2.jpg)

![Images from the brand guide](../images/mad-courses-website-3.jpg)


After a lot of trial and error, I discovered that
[SVG filters](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/SVG_Filters_Tutorial) were the solution. Using these, I developed some stylish vector graphics to
explain the MAD product.

These had all the flair of the MAD raster illustrations but remained highly
performant. I had managed to unify the design for MAD's brochure website, their
marketing and their main product. ✦
